Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number 531. In this episode,
Scott talks with Gina Marie
Miami about functional programming with
O'Connell. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes today. I'm
talking with Gina Marie Miami,
who is a functional programmer
and not just a functional
program with probably the most
passionate functional program I've ever
met. I met you at
Oz con and you were
overflowing with functional programming. I
think that's a common narrative
of anyone who does functional
programming for any nontrivial amount
of time, is that you
just have to share the
love Really. I mean, is
what maybe I've been doing
it wrong for the last
20 years. I mean, you
were like, like, you know,
have you heard the news,
have you accepted Oak camel
as your personal programming language?
I I'm very evangelical. Let's
put it that way. I
I'm a born again. Okay.
I'm I, I did Java
script development for probably too
long, which I guess was,
you know, three years or
whatever. And, you know, just,
just felt like things were
too hard. I couldn't reason
about all the state in
my program. I couldn't, I
couldn't know where bugs would
be. I wrote unit tests,
unit tests didn't do anything
good. And I just decided
one day that I was
going to do something different
and saw someone using a
camel and decided this looked
reasonable, this looked like something
I could do. And I
had tried, you know, Haskell
I think is probably the
most common hacker news trendy,
functional language. I tried Haskell
and kind of felt like
I wasn't was missing a
punchline maybe. I mean, it
seemed a little bit too
hard. It seemed like for
someone who didn't have a
computer science background, you know,
all of these higher kind
of types, you know, monads
galore, you know, I was
really, really lost. So Campbell
was a really good balance
pragmatism and you know, really
beautiful abstraction. So I guess
it's, you know, it's a,
it's a, it's a pragmatic
language. Do you, you know,
some people say that they
look for the programming language
of their soul and you
know, they find it and
it's just like, ah, this
is what I'm supposed to
be programming in. Do you
think you came pre-wired this
way? Did you come out
immediately wired for O'Connell and
didn't know it? Or did
you wire yourself into O'Connell
People who have, that's a
good question. You know, I
had, I hadn't heard that
before, but I like that
metaphor of your soul being,
you know, I don't know.
I think if I was
a programming language, I don't
know, maybe I would be
like COBOL or something like,
you know, imperative and, and
I don't know closeted in
some way. I don't know,
but okay. Will seems unlike
myself, it's a better self,
you know, it's a, Oh,
camel lets you be your
best self. Maybe that's what
it is. It does everything
I could ever want it
to do. It's got like
it's multi paradigm. It compiles
to byte code a compiles
and native code. It plays
nice with C people even
have it running on arm,
you know? I mean, it's,
it's all over the place
and, and somehow, yeah, it's
like an academic language, but
you know, it favors performance.
And as I've said, repeatedly
pragmatism. So, so it's unlike
myself. I would say that
I, I am not like,
okay, So tell me if
this is right and walk
me through this for people
who are, maybe can say
functional programming, but don't really
know like what it is.
Is it true that if
you take something like C
or C sharp or Java
and you problem that you
want to solve, it's basically
okay, computer, here are the
things you need to do
in order to get the
answer for a problem. But
with your functional programming language,
it's just more like, kind
of like, what is the
essence of the problem mathematically
and you figure it out
the computer. Yeah. That's, that's
a good, I mean, you
know, I don't know what
the official definition of functional
programming is. I'm only interested
in yours because I want
the practitioner's perspective. Just, just
as a user, you know,
I've read like, I think
I did functional JavaScript, JavaScript
dollar and J you know,
I've read all these like,
you know, functional JavaScript books.
But now that I work
in a functional language, I
guess I have some, some
more, how can I say
this zealous opinions, I suppose
functional programming is thinking of
data transformation. I guess that
would be, I just think
about my programs differently. Almost
like, you know, it's yeah,
it's very declarative. It's what
you, it's what you just
said, Scott. It's like, you,
you think about what should
this do at a high
level? I often find myself
thinking about before I start
writing a program, what did
it do? What do I
want this to do at
the end of the day?
What it, what is, what
am I talking about? And
whatever I'm talking about, those
just become types. And then
I just transform things and
value some, some data. And
that's basically what my program
ends up being, which sounds
like I don't even know
what I just said, but
that's, that's sort of, that's
sort of what happens. It's
very different than do this,
you know, manipulate this and
then you almost find your
eye kind of going back
up in your program to
like manipulate some previous thing.
Okay. Well, programs don't look
like that. There are flow.
They, they really are just
here's the world. Here's what
happens in this world. And
then this is the result
and that's, I dunno, it's,
it's it's it tends to
mirror human thought a little
bit better. I think functional
programming, Right? You're building kind
of a pipeline as you
move shapes and structures and
data structures from one form
to another, without concern for
a state and a state
changing randomly. Cause it doesn't
count. Yeah, exactly. State doesn't
change randomly. Although Campbell is
different than Haskell in the
way that it doesn't necessarily
track States. So for example,
you could write a function
and in the middle of
it, throw a print statement
in there and you know,
that won't be nothing. That's
fine. You know, that's that's,
you can do that, which
again, you know, is, is
a more pragmatic approach because,
you know, I enjoy being
able to put a random
print statement in, in my
life, but, you know, I
don't have, That would be
shocked if I would like
who would, who would be
against that? That seems like
a very noncontroversial thing to
want to do. Well, then
you're printing to the outside
world. I mean, that's a
trivial example, but you know,
you could do any sort
of side effect in the
middle of your function that
takes an in and returns
an end. And you know,
the type system wouldn't know
any better. I mean, in,
in, in terms of the
signature of the function, it's,
it's unchanged. So that's, that's
a little bit, a little
bit different. You couldn't quite
do that in Haskell. So
it isn't exactly. I mean,
you still have to wear
your, your conscious programmer hat,
but at the cost of,
you know, I don't know,
it's convenient. I so far,
I haven't really been burned
badly with that, but, you
know, I suppose one could
be, So one of the
things that makes things like
Ocala and functional programming languages
like, Oh, camel safer and
correct me if I'm wrong
because I'm just learning here.
Is it because it's a
pass by value, functional programming
language Pass by value. I
don't really know what that
means. Like as opposed to
pass by reference, I can't
give you a reference to
an integer and have you
mess with it. Mm. Actually
you can and no camel.
So there's actually a keyword.
Well, not a keyword. It's
actually just a function called
ref, which makes something that
has a mutable value to
it. So you could say,
you know, you could have
a counter that is mutable,
so Campbell again, another, another
trade off here, anytime you
want to make immutable data
structure or something, something mutable
you can with explicitly with
a keyword. So it's kind
of like, okay, you're the
boss. If you want to
make this mutable, that's great.
We're just going to represent
this in the type system
and we're going to know
about it. So actually it's
like when there is a
bug, you know exactly where
to look, Oh, I was
going to ask you like,
wait a second. I thought
we were talking about the
magic of not having state
and side effects. And here
you just said, well, there's
a, like, don't eat pork.
If you do, here are
some great recipes. Well look,
I think, you know, sometimes
an imperative solution makes sense.
You know, so Kamal has
four loops. It has wild
loops. It has mutable stuff.
You can have, you know,
variable length arrays. I think.
So. I mean, you can,
you can have these mutable
things. It's just a, it's
just, you gotta wear your
big kid hat and know
when to use them. So
sometimes, sometimes a four loop
is a good solution. There's,
you know, no, one's, you
know, you don't have to
use a, you know, some
sort of recursive, you know,
looping through a list for
everything. You know, sometimes you
want a sorting algorithm that's
going to mutate, what would
you give it? But I
rarely reach for those things.
It's interesting. Okay. Well also
has an object system. That's
very great. And you know,
I'd never use it. And
actually it's funny, there was
a stack overflow question the
other day about when should
I use object oriented Stefano,
camel. And the answer was
well, it's never really worth
it. And I think that's
funny, it's like, you know,
this added complexity of objects
just isn't worth it. And
that seems to be the
viewpoint I've seen mainly in
my limited time in the
Oklahoma community. But, but yeah,
people do use objects, but
again, rarely reach for them.
Same thing with mutable mutability.
I mean, it's there, but
you rarely reach for it.
Interesting. Cause what I'm trying
to get a sense of
is that every language has
its own. You know, you
talk about religion or picking
religion and how you're very
enthusiastic evangelist of this thing.
You know, how intense of
a religion is it? You
know what I mean? Like
is it that will shout,
not use objects when I
don't hear some objects, you
can use it, but you
really probably shouldn't, you know
what I mean? It, it
is a bit that is
kind of a paradox, right?
Cause it's like functional programming
is life, but also here's
some objects, but I guess,
you know, the thing is
they represent objects in, in
a coherent way in the
type system. I think they
do a pretty good job
of that. But you know,
really the only religious, I
would say quality of Oak
camel is all hail the
ML type system, all hail
pragmatism and you know, all
hail performance. Okay. Well, you
know, has, because of just
how great the type inferences
and how sound the type
system is, you can do
all of these static checks
and then basically for performance,
you erase most of the
type stuff at runtime. So
you get really blazing, fast
performance with a really sound
type system. And that's pretty
great. And it's also, you
know, yeah, it's just, it's,
it's like a great general
purpose language. So like for
pretty much anything you could
ever want to do, you
know, whether it's systems coding,
whether, you know, I was,
I was talking to, to,
you know, our mutual friend,
Rachel at jet and they
use F sharp, which is,
you know, a basic copy
of  and you know,
they use F sharp for
various end points for, you
know, just like funneling glue
in between different services, you
know, so you can use
it for anything and it
pretty much works great. So
yeah, it's, you know, you
can use mutability, you can
use objects, all that stuff.
And I will say whenever
I have a bug, I
always know where to look.
Okay. So you threw a,
when people talk about subjects
that they're really familiar with,
they throw out acronyms and
terms that people aren't necessarily
familiar with. So you just
threw out the, you said
all hail the ML type
system and ML was a
functional programming language. That's as
old as I am that
Robyn Milner made in the
seventies. What is the ML
type system? What does that
mean to camel? That ML
type system to Oko means?
Yeah, that's, that's a good
question. The Henry Milner algorithm
for type stuff, you know,
I'm not a, I know
nothing about type theory, but
we have a, we have
like higher kind of types.
So we have, you know,
let's see when I met
you at the conference, I
went to a type theory,
one Oh one class. Right.
So they were talking about,
you know, stuff I had
heard before monads monitors and
Funkster's right. I mean all
that stuff. So Kamal has
Funkster's yeah. This is the
kind of thing where people
say the Lambda calculus casually
over lunch. Yeah. It's like
modules, parameterized over modules. So,
you know, we, so funders
or something I literally never
use, but they're there and
there's actually great ways to
use them. The unikernel project
I work on uses Funkster's
galore, there's even a library
called funk Toria to make
your funders better. So it's
turtles all the way down,
you know? And so yeah,
we have all these, you
know, there's, there's, there's even
polymorphic types, which are types
where, you know, you can,
you don't necessarily have to
specify what type they will
be. And as the program
goes along, you can sort
of add to that type
with different types. So it
gives you sort of a
dynamic typing type of thing.
So there's open types and
all of these different types
of types that allow you
to do dynamic ish type
things. And yeah. So, but
basically what that means on
a day to day basis
for me is that when
I write a function that
takes something and uses another
function. Like for example, let's
say I wanted to make
my, you know, genus some
that's like, let's say, let
Gina some take I and
J right. And then I'm
going to, I plus J
there's only one thing that
these I and J could
ever be. And that's an
integer. Why? Because I'm using
a plus. So it's, it's
going to only unify with
one type. And that unification
is done by some very
fancy type thing that I
really know nothing about nor
do I really need to
know anything about it. So
that's some kind of type
inference that is happening. And
it's like, okay, I see
the two ans going in,
there's an incoming coming out.
And that's, that's the end
of it. Exactly. And this
can be kind of a
hurdle for people who are
just starting. I think, because,
you know, if you're coming
from something like Ruby or
Python or JavaScript, you might
not realize what it means
to have a fully coherent
constraint system. So for example,
you might be using a
variable in a certain way
and sort of a more
dynamic style and then unaware
that, you know, you've actually
created a pretty incomplete system.
It saves you from bugs,
for sure. But in the
beginning you might be like,
why can't I just do
this? Why, why is it
yelling at me? Why am
I getting these warnings from
the compiler? Why is it,
why is it, why is
it not a, I don't
know why isn't it giving
me the head on this
list while you've you have
a nested list and you
didn't realize it, or you've
used it away where this
function was expecting a string,
but you gave it a
list. And even though it
might've worked in something like
Python, it won't work in
Ocala because the type system
makes sure that everything is
formally correct. Camel was made
for formal verification. This episode
of Hansel minutes is brought
to you by brain tree
payments. By next year, maybe
even next week, there could
be a whole new way
to pay. Maybe it will
be the next Bitcoin or
the next Apple pay. Maybe
even both fortunately brain tree's
full stack payment platform is
easily adaptable to whatever the
future holds. So you can
adapt easily to, you can
accept everything from pounds to
PayPal, to that next big
innovation from any device with
one integration. And when that
new payment method comes out,
all you have to do
is update a few lines
of code no late nights,
no complicated recoding, no stress
about staying ahead of the
curve. Braintree payments is here
to help. You can learn
more@braintreepayments.com slash Hanselman that's Braintree
payments.com/hanselman. The SDK is available
in lots of languages, including.net
node, Java, Perl, and Python,
Ruby, check it out. So
backing up and kind of
paraphrasing. So this type system,
the, the ML type system
or the, the Hindley Miller
type system was this kind
of classical system that was
discovered and then described, and
someone got a PhD over
it. And then you can
make like monotypes and poly
types and free types and
do all this kind of
stuff. But Oak camel has
the static type system. And
then also does inference and
gives you less rope with
which to hang yourself. So
while in other languages, you
can cast a string to
an int and let the,
let the grenade start flying.
You're you're more constrained in
a language like this, cause
it has to be correct.
Is that fair to say?
Totally fair to say, but,
but want to denim, even
though it is statically typed,
it's not the same, you
know, some people listening might
be thinking, Oh, like Java,
not like Java in the
sense that you have to
explicitly state types. You don't,
I never have to say
into I and J I
can it's I can totally
do that in some, in
some cases where maybe you've
I know now maybe it's
something, there are some cases
where you have to explicitly
give the compiler a little
help. You might find that
every now and then, but
you won't. And just the
way that you use it,
it will only unify with,
with one type. And sometimes
that's any type, but, you
know, or like, you know,
you'll see those in, in
type signatures, alpha beta, right.
You know, like let's say,
you know, the type signature
of map, right. It takes
a let's see, it takes
a function that takes a
to B it takes a
list of a, and gives
you a list of B,
right? So that those are
like generic types. But, but
most of the time it'll,
it'll unify correctly for you.
You don't have to explicitly
state any type. Okay. I
got ya. Now, one of
the cool features of O'Connell
and other languages have this,
but we're talking about Oak
camel is this concept of
an, of an FFI or
a foreign function interface. Have
you used those? I haven't
really, but I know that
it makes talking to see
really great. So if I
understand correctly, not only does
it mean that you can
call C, but you can
also even make a library,
you know, camel and then
expose it as C. So
a C programmer would actually
not even know that it
was old camel. Yeah. I've,
I've heard this before an
IRC. There's also a great
library called C types. I've
never used it, but, but
that's a thing and people
love doing it. That's a
thing. And people love doing
it. I think what's cool
about that though. Is it
reminds me that old camel
isn't an Island. It's not
like, Oh, you must be
this way. And you must
live in our world. You
know, that's a recognition that,
that you do have to
interrupt at some point. Yeah,
no, it's, it's very much
about interoperability. Like the project
I'm working on right now.
So I write in Oak
camel, I compile the old
camel bytecode. Then I take
that bite code and I
use a program called JS
camel, which makes JavaScript. And
then I run this Java
script in the node run
time. So I'm actually writing
a camel and I have
an electron app. So it's
like kind of like some,
a lot of song and
dance, a lot of witchcraft,
but it's a really nice
development flow. And I'm, that's
possible because people wrote these
amazing bindings to know JS
and bindings to, you know,
express and all these JavaScript
libraries. So they did all
the type work ahead of
time for me to use
this stuff. And, and that's,
that's really great. The whole
camel community is really, really
great. I can't stress that
enough. And you said this
was called J S of,
okay. Yes. I believe this
came out of the, the
oxygen project, which had a
couple of different, really interesting
things. It was, it was
a web project. They had
like LWT, which is a
cooperative threading library, which is,
you know, really bread and
butter in O'Connell it's used
in pretty much everything. There's
a lot of cool stuff
that came out of that
project. Thai XML is another
one that's, that's pretty popular.
So they have a lot
of different frameworks that came
out of that, that I
think are potentially more popular
than, than the rest of
the project. But I, you
know, I, I don't really
know. And the, the, now
of course the resulting JavaScript,
can't be really recognizable. I
assume it looks just like
magic, you know, VAR one,
VAR zero. I mean, you
don't really think about it
like that. You're using JavaScript
as its own runtime. Aren't
you like a virtual machine
of its own, Actually Bloomberg
made John Campbell to JavaScript a
tool and that actually produces
readable JavaScript. So it's possible
that JSO came well, might
make that a thing. I
don't know if it is
a thing I don't usually
need it. I've never had
like, usually if there's a
serious bug, I can kind
of figure out what it
is without needing to even
read the Java script. But
also because I am familiar
with web, but, but yeah,
that's, that's a feature in,
in other tools. So that's
interesting. Did you know about
this? Like you said, you
were in node and JavaScript,
you are a web person,
you didn't really feel it.
You found Oak camel, and
then here you are back
compiling it into JavaScript again.
Yeah. Well, I can't, I
mean, the node ecosystem is
amazing and I definitely think
a lot of functional communities
can learn from JavaScript tools
in the sense that people
who, who write stuff in
JavaScript tend to make things
that are usable very quickly.
They make great tools, even
though, you know, NPM like
the left pad. So, you
know, I, there was a
lot of discussion. We have
a package manager called OPM
and it's really great. It's
like the best package manager
I've ever used. I will
say if you're starting a
camel, Oh, Pam get really
comfortable with it. It's fabulous.
I brought this up for
a reason. What was the
reason? Yeah. So left pad.
So, you know, after that
whole, you know, that guy
took off that really important
package and, you know, then
package disappeared. Yeah. And of
course there was a discussion,
you know, like a little
bit of, well, Oh, Pam
has been criticized a bit
for being slow, you know,
there's like a review process
and that of thing. And
you know, it was kind
of like, well, which is
better. I mean, you know,
it's like you have a
sea of garbage or like
a tiny collection of treasures,
right. It's like, which is
better. Something like unmaintainable or
something that's like overly maintained.
I don't know what the
right answer is, but it's
interesting, like the difference in
those communities and kind of
making tools that sort of
bridge those communities, Facebook just
released reason, which is so,
so very hot. The syntax
looks like JavaScript, but it
is Ocampo under the hood.
And they even have tools
that turn your old camel
project into a reason project.
So lots of cool stuff
there, and I'm sure they
will continue to dump talent
into that. So, you know,
if you're listening to this
and you're wondering, Oh, well,
this is great, but this
has nothing to do with
my life or the things
I build. Definitely check out
reason. Those people are really
smart. Interesting, backing up a
little bit to give people
a little bit of context.
You've got 1,213 packages in
OPM. Oh, Pam, the old
camel package manager, you've got
over a quarter of a
million in NPM. So that
definitely gives you the sense
of what's, you know, do
you, do you want a
highly curated and exclusive library
where everything is guaranteed to
work, you know, or do
you want 15 copies of
pad lift each one of
which is possibly guaranteed to
work? You know, I, you
know, I think these are
unanswerable questions. They are great
on it as with all
good religions. They are the
great financial questions. So I'm
teasing, I'm teasing a little
bit. I'm going to get
emails from angry note people
now. Oh no, I love
node. Yeah. I love the
ecosystem. I love, you know,
I love working and, and
the no JS bindings, it's
its own camel, but it's
still node, you know, it's,
it's still streams. It's still
all that good stuff. It's
still like, you know, still
all the stuff you want
to note. So, So let's
talk, talk to me a
little bit more about this
reason, reason for a second.
I've read up a little
bit about it. You didn't
see it at facebook.github.io/reason. And
by the way, if this
is not proof that we've
officially run out of things,
to call things a try,
try Googling for reason and
finding the programming language called
reason and not be literally
everything else in the planet
called reason, but it's an
interface to Oak camel, right?
It's a dialect kind of
ML language, but is this
another, what is this? This
is another old camel. That's
a good question. I think
it's a lot of it
is to be determined. It's
a new language I think
is how it's being marketed,
which is Oak Hamill. So
it's, you know, it's got
the type system it's got
all that. Goodness. But the
syntax is really just all
it's changed, which a lot
of people have been bemoaning
a bit in the
community. I mean, there are
warts in Okemos syntax, but
I wouldn't say that the
syntax is the most painful
part of a camel, like
far from it, in my
opinion. But I'm, I do
think it's a noble task
to try to draw more
people into a camel and
remove any boundaries to getting
started. So if that's what
the goal is, then like
I'm all for it. Yeah.
It's interesting. You know, this
may be completely ignorant thing
to say. And I hope
that people who are listening
will email me and say,
you're ignorant, not you me,
but, Well also email me
if I'm accurate, I will
forward all of my emails
to you. So, you know,
people like JavaScript, but JavaScript
has some problems. So then
someone goes and makes, you
know, coffee script or even
more dramatically TypeScript. And then
you say, Oh, well you
can have, you know, JavaScript
files are TypeScript. And also
you can have TypeScript files.
It seems like reason is
like a way of saying,
well, here's another way of
thinking about, Oh, camel and
the old camel build, you
know, we're going to replace
that. Okay. Mobility gets replaced
with this thing called rebuild.
So now you can build
reason files and Oak Hamill
files. So it seems like
to me, ignorantly, you know,
TypeScript is to JavaScript as
reason as to Oak camel.
It's almost like a rapper,
but it's compatible and it's
friendly. And let's just see
where this takes us. Well,
I think replacing old camel
build is very noble. The
building of camel is a
hundred percent the worst part
of Oak camel, no question.
It's very difficult. And I'm
constantly searching man pages, documentation.
I mean, pretty much every
project I have to keep
it open. It's something that's
still really hard for me.
Yeah. Why is it just
like install old camel and
type do it, and then
it works. It's confusing. Like
how you set up your
interface, files, how you like
link with like shared libraries,
how you make libraries very
complicated. There's a couple tools
that make it better. The
other, the other thing that's
difficult is there's the state
of the build tools is
extremely fragmented. You know, there's
like 20 and there's no
consensus on what's the best
one at least, you know,
in my limited view, I'm
sure I can already, like,
I can feel the Twitter
DMS. Like I can feel
them coming, but yeah, there's
a, yeah. I mean, there's
no real consensus. I would
say that another tip to
people who are just beginning
really look at Utah, which
is the top level interpreter
just in the beginning, just
yes, you top and do
that because it'll make your
life a lot better. And,
and then look at a
waste, a waste. This is
a, basically it generates a,
you know, cross platform make
files, I believe. And anyway,
that's got a quick start
functionality, if you just want
to set up a project
and just get it to
work, you know, I embarrassingly
use make files. I mean,
there's probably, I'm sure I'm
going to get again. I
can feel the DMS. I'm
sure. I'm sure there's something
better, but that's what I'm
using right now to build
my projects. Interesting. I would,
somehow I would have expected
it just to be this
like joy. Like I've heard
everything about the programming language
and the environment to be
joyous. And then it's like,
and then you got to
build a thing and it
sounds like, you know, eventually
you hit, you know, the
abstraction isn't perfect anymore. And
then reality hits in and
building stuff, You know, I'm
sure there are people like,
I remember, I don't know,
camel meetup, some guy who
had been doing dev ops
for like, you know, 30
years, I don't know before
the internet, before anybody like
before. And he was like,
well, you know, I don't
really know what you guys
are expecting. You know, this
is not really that bad,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
But inevitably, I mean, I've
just, just peripherally on the
old camel channel. And Freenode,
that's like the question of
the day. I mean, there
must be at least five
questions a day about how
to build a camel. So
yeah. So I think it's,
you know, I think it's
going to, so that's why
I'm also excited for reason
is I just want easier
ways to do that. So,
you know, that doesn't have
me combing documentation, but I
think one day you just
wake up and you know,
all the things and then
this is no longer a
problem. So once I get
there, maybe the, but that
really is the only ugly
part for me. I mean,
everything else is fabulous. It's
just that really? Yeah. So
are you, what do you
run it on? I'm looking
on their website and I
see all kinds of Linux
flavors mentioned. I see, you
know, Mac mentioned, but I
also see a windows gets
kind of a yeah. And
also windows, a bit of
a comment and there's different
ports and kind of, it
doesn't seem like it's like
super Epic on windows. What's,
what's the, what's the story.
And what's the best, the
best operating system to try
this on. You know, I
don't know. I mean, Mac
worked really great for me
OSX, but I use fedora.
So I'm the red link
Caesar, but you know, anything
Unix is going to be
great windows. I know the
situation is a bit precarious.
I'm not, I'm not really
sure. I've never tried to
run on windows. So I
don't know the answer. Well,
I am, as we are
sitting here talking, installing it,
using a wound to on
windows and see if that
will work. So I will
have a wound to running
on windows and see if
I can get something to
go on. It's very interesting
though. There seem to be
also some different ways to
do it. It looks like
it does run. Yeah. So
I just ran, Oh, Pam
config, ENV, and what's where
are some places I would
go and learn about this?
What's some good code examples
to play with. That's great.
So I've got some stuff
on my GitHub. Let's see.
I've got some, I think
there's a repository on my
GitHub called example, camel example,
dash of camels. So that's
yeah. So it's good hub.com/wired
sister. That's wired as in
cables and then sister as
in your sister and Fugler
example, camel. So that's D
so slash example, dash camel,
you get a raw pository
that me and this other
guy, FX factorial used to
do presentations. If you click
the examples directory, maybe click
the, some odds.ml file. Here's
something functions for just summing
odds. And this is kind
of interesting. Cause you can
see in the bottom I
have an imperative solution. So
that might be, remember we
were talking about mutability. So
here you see that rep
zero as the counter, right.
And then that bang counter
is sort of D referencing
that type of idea. So
I would say that old
camel is probably of all
the languages, the one that
is least likely to be
explained syntactically on a podcast,
but you know what I
mean? Totally, totally valid. Yeah.
I'm like, you know, list
like list dot fold, right.
And I'm like, Oh, that's
an Roe thingy. What do
we call that? You know,
I'm sure that there's like
a, you know, what do
you call it? Hash rocket
or super bang or I'm,
I'm pretty primitive. I just
say arrow there's no other
arrows. I mean, there's, there's
a left arrow for any
way that doesn't it. I
know I'm going to put
a link to this though
in the show notes. So
then people can, can see
that. So, and then once
I've got this down, like,
do I just say, Oh,
camel, and the name of
the file that it's in
or how do you run
these things? Yeah. So it's
just a, you can use,
okay, we'll see. Or Kamal
off. So that's the native
code is opt and then
the bike code is C
so yeah, just let's see.
Okay. I'm, we'll see, you
know, and then just your
program and it should go,
I think just as standard
out, but let's see. But
the other thing you can
do, which I think is
better for people just starting,
it is Utah and then
paste in Utah and then
you use two semi-colons and
hit enter, and then it'll
evaluate whatever you drop in.
And that's kind of, I
don't know. I prefer redeveloped
print loops for, Okay. So
Utah is the rebel and
that's where I spend my
time. Yeah. And you can
just open them, install that.
Okay. Very cool. And actually,
you know, I'm going to
just while we're sitting here
for a second, I just
say, Oh, Pam install. UCAB
that says, Oh, just make
sure that you specify opium
in it. Oh, Pam Annette.
Yes. Yes, sir. It, it,
it gives you great help.
It really does. Well. Yeah.
It seems to be very,
very clear on, on what
it's doing. And it tells
me it's giving me nice
instructions and stuff. And then,
and then I'm often doing
it. Cool. Well, this has
been super educational and we
can learn about this, of
course, at Oak camel.org. And
then on your get hub,
your get hub name is
wired sister, and I want
to include your example, Oak
camel stuff up there. And
then the other thing was
J S underscore of underscore
Ocala, JSO, camel. And then
the other thing we talked
about was reason from Facebook
would sound super interesting And,
and last, last, but not
least if you're using an
a, you know, Emacs or
them or whatever your setup
is, look into Merlin, which
is a plugin that'll help
you get a lot of
really cool type checking stuff.
And that has made my
life incredibly easy. So that's
just one other tool I
would throw out there is
Merlin. Okay, cool. I will
send all of that in
the show notes and I
really appreciate your time. Yeah,
absolutely. You know, take everything
I say with a grain
of salt, I'm still still
learning, but okay. What org
has great stuff. Please feel
free to ask people on
IRC. They're so nice. They're
they're not like those, I
don't know these stereotypical mean
functional programmers. They're very nice.
I know what the stereotype
would be. Maybe like ranger
hats and like, you know,
those strappy sandals or something.
I don't know, but they're
not that they're very nice.
Very cool. Well, thank you
so much, Gina Marie Miami
for your time today. Yeah,
no problem. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.